00-get-started/00-install-rw-kafka-pg.md, before:

# Install RisingWave, Kafka, and PostgreSQL

If you do not have experience with or have not installed RisingWave, Kafka, or PostgreSQL, follow along to learn how to set up these systems.

## Install RisingWave

RisingWave is an open-source distributed SQL streaming database licensed under the Apache 2.0 license. It utilizes a PostgreSQL-compatible interface, allowing users to perform distributed stream processing in the same way as operating a PostgreSQL database.

You can install RisingWave using `curl`.

```terminal
curl https://risingwave.com/sh | sh
```

Next, start all RisingWave services.

```terminal
risingwave
```

Run the following code to connect to RisingWave.

```terminal
psql -h localhost -p 4566 -d dev -U root
```

You can now start writing SQL queries to process streaming data. 

If you would like to explore other ways of installing RisingWave, see the [Quick start](https://docs.risingwave.com/docs/current/get-started/) guide.

## Install Kafka

Apache Kafka is an open-distributed event streaming platform for building event-driven architectures, enabling you to retrieve and process data in real time. 

To install and run the self-hosted version of Kafka, follow steps one through three outlined in this [Apache Kafka quickstart](https://kafka.apache.org/quickstart).

You should have learned how to install Kafka, start the environment, and create a topic. 

## Install PostgreSQL

PostgreSQL is a relational database management system, allowing you to store and manage your data.

To use RisingWave and ingest CDC data from PostgreSQL databases, you will need to install the PostgreSQL server. To learn about the different packages and installers for various platforms, see [PostgreSQL Downloads](https://www.postgresql.org/download/).

Commit message:

doc(00-get-started): verifies get-started chapter (#7)
* [00:VERIFY] Verifies the steps described in 00

* [TXT] Adds reminder to have Java as dependency for Kafka + Zookeeper

* [00-01] Fixes links and stale results in 00-01

* [00-01] Follows standard to use inline code block instead of double quotes for instance names

* [00-01] Links this tutorial to official doc

* [00-02] Verifies 00-02, fixes broken links, and adds extra operations for Ubuntu users to handle the password issue

* Apply suggestions from code review

For postgreSQL, init password handling extends from IPv4 local connections to IPv4 + IPv6.

Co-authored-by: stonepage <40830455+st1page@users.noreply.github.com>

* [00-02] Removes Ubuntu user specifications

* [00-02] Removes Mac users specifications

---------

Co-authored-by: stonepage <40830455+st1page@users.noreply.github.com>

00-get-started/00-install-rw-kafka-pg.md, after:

# Install RisingWave, Kafka, and PostgreSQL

If you do not have experience with or have not installed RisingWave, Kafka, or PostgreSQL, follow along to learn how to set up these systems.

## Install PostgreSQL

PostgreSQL is a relational database management system, allowing you to store and manage your data.

To use RisingWave and ingest CDC data from PostgreSQL databases, you will need to install the PostgreSQL server. To learn about the different packages and installers for various platforms, see [PostgreSQL Downloads](https://www.postgresql.org/download/).

## Install RisingWave

RisingWave is an open-source distributed SQL streaming database licensed under the Apache 2.0 license. It utilizes a PostgreSQL-compatible interface, allowing users to perform distributed stream processing in the same way as operating a PostgreSQL database.

You can install RisingWave using `curl`.

```terminal
curl https://risingwave.com/sh | sh
```

Next, start all RisingWave services by running the executable.

```terminal
./risingwave
```

In another terminal, run the following code to connect to RisingWave.

```terminal
psql -h localhost -p 4566 -d dev -U root
```

You can now start writing SQL queries to process streaming data. 

If you would like to explore other ways of installing RisingWave, see the [Quick start](https://docs.risingwave.com/docs/current/get-started/) guide.

## Install Kafka

Apache Kafka is an open-distributed event streaming platform for building event-driven architectures, enabling you to retrieve and process data in real time. 

To install and run the self-hosted version of Kafka, follow steps 1 ~ 3 outlined in this [Apache Kafka quickstart](https://kafka.apache.org/quickstart). As a kind reminder, Java is a necessity to start Kafka with Zookeeper.

You should now have a good handle on how to install Kafka, start the environment, and create a topic.
