01-query-process-streaming-data/001-ingest-analyze-kafka.md, before:

# Continuously ingest and analyze Kafka data

This demo shows how to use RisingWave to continuously ingest data from Kafka and perform streaming analytics.

## Prerequisites

To execute this demo, the following systems must be installed:

* A RisingWave instance
* A Kafka instance

## Steps

### Produce messages to a Kafka topic

Refer to [Section 00-01](../00-get-started/01-ingest-kafka-data.md#use-kafka-to-produce-messages) to create a Kafka topic and add messages to it using a Kafka producer.

### Create a source in RisingWave

Refer to [Section 00-01](../00-get-started/01-ingest-kafka-data.md#create-a-source) to create a source in RisingWave.

### Analyze the data

By creating a source, RisingWave has been connected to the data stream. However, in order to ingest and process the data from Kafka, we need to create some [materialized views](https://docs.risingwave.com/docs/dev/key-concepts/#materialized-views). Each of these materialized views contains the results of a query, which are updated as soon as new data comes in.

The following SQL query creates a materialized view named `visits_stream_mv` based on the source `website_visits_stream`. For each `page_id`, it calculates the number of total visits, the number of unique visitors, and the timestamp when the page was most recently visited.

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW visits_stream_mv AS
 SELECT page_id,
 COUNT(*) AS total_visits,
 COUNT(DISTINCT user_id) AS unique_visitors,
 MAX(timestamp) AS last_visit_time
 FROM website_visits_stream
 GROUP BY page_id;
```

We can query from the materialized view to see the results.

```sql
SELECT * FROM visits_stream_mv;
```

The results will look like the following. Note that the rows do not necessarily follow this order.

```terminal
 page_id | total_visits | unique_visitors |      last_visit_time
---------+--------------+-----------------+---------------------------
 page1   |            2 |               2 | 2023-06-13 10:07:00+00:00
 page2   |            2 |               2 | 2023-06-13 10:08:00+00:00
 page3   |            1 |               1 | 2023-06-13 10:09:00+00:00
(3 rows)
```

Additionally, if you add one more data to the Kafka topic as described in [Section 00-01](../00-get-started/01-ingest-kafka-data.md#create-a-source), using the Kafka producer, you can also verify the updated version of this materialized view. The new data is as follow.
```terminal
{"timestamp": "2023-06-13T10:10:00Z", "user_id": "user6", "page_id": "page4", "action": "click"}
```

Now run `SELECT * FROM visits_stream_mv;` again, and you will see the following outputs.
```terminal
 page_id | total_visits | unique_visitors |      last_visit_time
---------+--------------+-----------------+---------------------------
 page1   |            2 |               2 | 2023-06-13 10:07:00+00:00
 page2   |            2 |               2 | 2023-06-13 10:08:00+00:00
 page3   |            1 |               1 | 2023-06-13 10:09:00+00:00
 page4   |            1 |               1 | 2023-06-13 10:10:00+00:00
(4 rows)
```

Commit message:

[01-000;01-001] Finishes writing 01-000 and links to 01-000 in 01-001; adds resource clean-up part in 01-001

01-query-process-streaming-data/001-ingest-analyze-kafka.md, after:

# Continuously ingest and analyze Kafka data

This demo shows how to use RisingWave to continuously ingest data from Kafka and perform streaming analytics.

## Prerequisites

To execute this demo, the following systems must be installed:

* A RisingWave instance
* A Kafka instance

## Steps

### Produce messages to a Kafka topic

Refer to [Section 00-01](../00-get-started/01-ingest-kafka-data.md#use-kafka-to-produce-messages) to create a Kafka topic and add messages to it using a Kafka producer.

### Create a source in RisingWave

Refer to [Section 00-01](../00-get-started/01-ingest-kafka-data.md#create-a-source) to create a source in RisingWave.

### Analyze the data with materialized views

By creating a source, RisingWave has been connected to the data stream. However, in order to ingest, process, and persist the data from Kafka, we need to create some [materialized views](https://docs.risingwave.com/docs/dev/key-concepts/#materialized-views). Each of these materialized views contains the results of a query, which are updated as soon as new data comes in.

The following SQL query creates a materialized view named `visits_stream_mv` based on the source `website_visits_stream`. The inner SQL query is the same as the one demonstrated in [Section 01-000](000-query-kafka.md#analyze-the-data). For each `page_id`, it calculates the number of total visits, the number of unique visitors, and the timestamp when the page was most recently visited. 

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW visits_stream_mv AS
 SELECT page_id,
  COUNT(*) AS total_visits,
  COUNT(DISTINCT user_id) AS unique_visitors,
  MAX(timestamp) AS last_visit_time
 FROM website_visits_stream
 GROUP BY page_id;
```

We can query from the materialized view to see the results.

```sql
SELECT * FROM visits_stream_mv;
```

The results will look like the following. Note that the rows do not necessarily follow this order.

```terminal
 page_id | total_visits | unique_visitors |      last_visit_time
---------+--------------+-----------------+---------------------------
       1 |            2 |               2 | 2023-06-13 10:07:00+00:00
       2 |            2 |               2 | 2023-06-13 10:08:00+00:00
       3 |            1 |               1 | 2023-06-13 10:09:00+00:00
(3 rows)
```

Additionally, if you add one more data to the Kafka topic as described in [Section 00-01](../00-get-started/01-ingest-kafka-data.md#create-a-source), using the Kafka producer, you can also verify the updated version of this materialized view. The new data is as follow.
```terminal
{"timestamp": "2023-06-13T10:10:00Z", "user_id": 6, "page_id": 4, "action": "click"}
```

Now run `SELECT * FROM visits_stream_mv;` again, and you will see the following outputs.
```terminal
 page_id | total_visits | unique_visitors |      last_visit_time
---------+--------------+-----------------+---------------------------
       1 |            2 |               2 | 2023-06-13 10:07:00+00:00
       2 |            2 |               2 | 2023-06-13 10:08:00+00:00
       3 |            1 |               1 | 2023-06-13 10:09:00+00:00
       4 |            1 |               1 | 2023-06-13 10:10:00+00:00
(4 rows)
```

### Optional: Clean up resources
To clean up the resources created in this section, go through the steps described in [Section 00-01](../00-get-started/01-ingest-kafka-data.md#optional-clean-up-resources). Note that these extra materialized views can also be deleted automatically upon deleting the source with the keyword `CASCADE`.
